---
layout: page
title: About Me
date: 2016-04-29T13:04:04-04:00
modified:
excerpt:
share: false
tags: []
image:
  feature:
---

I am a Fifth year PhD candidate in the University of South Carolina's [<font color="blue">department of English</font>](http://artsandsciences.sc.edu/engl/graduate-program), specializing in Rhetoric. I am also completing a certificate in [<font color="blue">Women's and Gender Studies</font>](http://artsandsciences.sc.edu/wgst/front-page), also at USC, with a special interest in gender performativity and sexual identity in software and code. I also hold a Master's degree in Rhetoric and Composition with a specialization in composition pedagogy, and Bachelor's degree in English (with a minor in Computer Science), both from the [<font color="blue">Southern Illinois University Edwardsville</font>](http://www.siue.edu/artsandsciences/english/graduate/tow/index.shtml). 

While my early research has focused primarily on the relationship between rhetoric and digital media, over the past two years my scholarship has expanded to examine the role both rhetoric and technology play in the performance of gender and sexuality. In my dissertation *Queer Practices, Queer Rhetoric, Queer Technology: Studies of Digital Performativity in Gendered Network Culture*, I pursue a research agenda that analyzes code and software as cultural producers of technologically-mediated subject positions, thus demonstrating a much needed investigation of the intersections between critical code studies and queer and gender studies. To that end, I develop a methodology that demonstrates how technology reiterates gendered practices in software engineering and information networks. Drawing from José Munoz’s concept of disidentification, I argue that source code and network protocols circulate gender and sexuality through relationships of digital labor and that queer coding practices can critique logics of heteronormative knowledge-making practices at the level of code performance. My approach to code and networks looks at three logics of software and networks–mastery, swarms, and trust–as performative mechanisms that articulate gendered and sexualized subjectivities and ideologies. Thus, my research identifies the function of source code as an articulation of gendered knowledge-making practices and, through my analysis of queer performativities within those practices, as potential sites of resistance that scholars can work in to critique and subvert the underlying logics of software and digital networks. These conclusions contribute to scholarship in gender and queer studies, communication, rhetoric, media studies, and technical communication by highlighting how software cites and iterates assumptions of gender, sexuality, and software development. I am currently shaping the dissertation into a proposal for a book-length manuscript. 

In addition to my research, I have taught multiple courses in writing, digital media, speech communication, and rhetorical theory over the course of seven years in settings ranging from major research universities to master's and technical   colleges. I teach first-year writing and argumentation, speech communication and ethics, and professional and technical writing. I have had the privilege of teaching these courses to a diverse group of students, an experience that has led me to integrate feminist pedagogical practices into my teaching. [<font color="blue">My courses</font>](http://geraldsjackson.github.io/teaching) all include ample engagement with digital technology and critical questions of identity formation through different forms of digital communication, such as social media platforms, online publishing, software interfaces, and video games.

As Assistant Director of First-Year English at the University of South Carolina (2014-2016) I served as project manager and liaison between the First-Year English and the Center for Digital Humanities (CDH) on what has become the First-Year Corpus project. My intent is to turn this experience towards developing grant proposals for the creation of a research and practical education group that brings together scholars from gender studies, media and communication studies, and information and computer sciences to facilitate innovative research. 

I am also the co-founder and senior editor of the academic journal, [<font color="blue">Itineration: Cross-Disciplinary Studies in Rhetoric, Media, and Culture</font>](http://tundra.csd.sc.edu/itineration/).

Outside of academic work, I enjoy reading, writing, and watching television and movies. I have been an on-and-off science fiction fan my entire life, and currently I am nurturing an increasing fandom for Dr. Who and The Americans (the last is not sci-fi, but whatever). I enjoy playing classic video games, tinkering with computer code, and jogging. 

Also, I have a beautiful wife and daughter who have, in many ways, made all of this possible. I can't imagine any hobbies or professional commitments without either of them in my life, and for that I am forever thankful. 
