---
layout: post
title: Reflection at RSA 2016, Day 1
modified:
categories: Professional
excerpt:
tags: [conferences, reflections, rhetoric]
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-05-28T07:06:52-04:00
---

My first day at the Rhetoric Society of America Biennial Conference 2016 was actually only a half-day, unfortunately. Driving in from Columbia, SC, I spent a good portion of the day in the car passing through Georgia and South Carolina. Perhaps unrelated to the conference itself but not to my own experience, the travel west from SC to Georgia is actually incredibly nice. The road conditions also improve tremendously, but this seems to be the case no matter what direction you leave the state. 

<h4>Presentations of Note:</h4>
Joan Faber McAlister presented "Inside Amy Schumer: Celebrating and Critiquing Comedic Modes in (PostFeminism)" (D14), a great talk on Schumer, her focus on women's issues, and the status of her popular show on Comedy Central. Faber noted that Schumer, perhaps unlike other female comedians, has reached across gendered audiences to attract an audience of men as well as women. Faber cites critics who referenced her comedy as sort of "bro," in that it (and her stand up, if you have ever heard it) are frank in their discussion of race, class, gender, and sexuality. Schumer often takes on the character of a cluelessly spoiled white American, which situates her comedy as a biting critique of social norms thorugh parody. However, as Faber pointed out, this causes some friction in how her comedy is recieved, in that Schumer rarely addresses race overtly and her performances can reify uncomortable racial categories rather than critique them. Faber's ultimate point, that a feminist comedic approach to cultural critique well be messy and sometimes incomplete, does not foreclose seeing Schumer's work as important. Instead, it invites us to interrogate humor as a challenge to the cliched "humorless feminist" and investigate feminism's role in the world.

In the "Rhetorics and Aesthetics" panel (E3), I listened to two great talks (which is great, as I attended the panel on a whim). In the first, Jess Boykin discussed comics and invitational rhetoric in "Filling the Gaps: Invitational Rhetoric and the Graphical Biography," she uses the graphical biographies of Martin Luther King Jr., Malcom X, and Nelson Mandela to show how whitespace between panels in the comics invite readers to construct their own meaning alongside the comic. Rather than an enthymematic logic of persuasion, the whitespace invites readers into a conversation regarding the action in the comic and what it expresses. The second, "Beautiful Subversions: (re)Covering and (re)Examining the Transvestite Visualities and Feminists Rhetorics of 19th Century Author and Actor Adah Issacs Menken,"  by Jeanne Bohannon, uses archival material of Menken to show how the gendered work of drag in media found root in the theatrics and reproducibility in photography. Menken posed both in clothing that was traditionally male and female, and often blurred the lines between the two (for example, wearing men's clothing but exposing her breasts). Bohannon argued that recovering this kind of visual rhetoric is important, in that Menken used a transvestite visuality to express her interpretations of her own gender and sexuality at a time when such images were often portrayed as lewd or corrupt. Bohannon's work tied together a study of the medium and the archive to discuss why the rhetoric's of Menken could be recovered as a feminist or queer rhetoric of visual media.

I think both panels set me up for a good conference outing. There were a few I missed early on due to my drive, but I was rewarded with some interesting discussion and ideas. I enjoyed that both of these panels, at least in some way, were dealing with media, or at least different discourses than I am used to discussing: namely sketch comedy and photography. I had done some work on African-American activists and performance through photography for a course (with a paper I hope to return to someday) so Bohannon's talk was a great surprise.
