---
layout: post
title: Teaching First Year Composition in an Era of Circulating Media
modified:
categories: Pedagogy
excerpt:
tags: [BLM, critical pedagogy, race, rhetoric]
image:
  feature:
date: 2016-07-14T01:26:52-04:00
---

Not too long ago, two African American men were shot by the police, re-opening some still-healing wounds for the country. One of my students, prior to class, laughed a bit ruefully and commented, "Why does it seem that so many things happen between classes?" Her comment marked a sad (and frustrated) orientation in our conversations in which our capacity to address certain events as a class was being outpaced by the sheer volume of reports of death, murder, and exploitation.

Now, part of this could reflect on me and what I chose to bring up. Thinking about students as critical beings has, in a way, always compelled me to think of the classroom as a place to bring up issues in our contemporary culture. This is not to rile them up or to construct a classroom of like-minded critics, but rather to ask them, first and foremost, to acknowledge that there are events in the world that escape our immediate attention, whether through our own lack of care or lack of exposure. However, as is the case in this situation, the overwhelming representation of violence, authority, and poverty in the United States is overt and, in some ways, not very complicated. I took for granted, for example, that my students remembered events like the shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson, MO, or the choking death of Eric Garner in New York, or the Dylan Booth terrorist attack in Charleston, or the demonstrations and riots that followed many of these incidents. But overall, the specter of racial violence and the role of authority in America was sort of ephemeral, shocking, unreal in a way. And, more so, I think it was seen as tragic and unavoidable. One student opined that when it comes to movements like black lives matter, she wishes people would just be quiet because "hashtags are useless and people will forget in a week anyway." The sadness and frustration that has no outlet, no recourse, seemingly no way out, comes to the surface and, in many ways, either burns in shocked outrage or simply dissolves into resignation (or, often, one leads in to the other). 

I haven't had much issue raising these topics, despite some anecdotes I've heard of teachers having different experiences. I find that, through experience over the years, I'm going to get less from it if I continue to lean on what I traditionally do in the class, and find it increasingly difficult to distinguish what I teach in the class (rhetoric, argument, writing) and what is going on in the world. Teaching "skills" or techniques increasingly provides little connection, little structure, for students to invest in, and more and more I find it a tactic of institutionalized discourse. To teach a writing class as a space to learn techniques, form, or to read the sanctioned corpus of a humanities education seems antiquated and out of touch. I look to projects like [<font color="blue">the BLM Syllabus</font>](http://www.blacklivesmattersyllabus.com/frankleonrobertsr/) and see what pedagogy and practice are to some: a political act. I hope to, in the next weeks, research and potentially produce similar projects, to help both structure my future teaching and to offer resources and support to others doing the same.
